# Bike-share-case-study-using-R
## Introduction
Welcome to a data analysis case study on Cyclistic’s bike sharing. In this case study, I will work as a junior data analyst for a fictitious organization called Cyclistic. The company’s stakeholder believes that the company’s future success depends on the annual membership subscription rate. As a junior data analyst working in the company’s marketing department, my team wants to understand how annual and casual members use Cyclistic bikes differently and provide. From these insights, my team is required to develop new marketing strategies to increase the sales of annual memberships.

## About the company
Cyclistic introduced a popular bike-share program in 2016. The initiative has expanded since then to include a fleet of 5,824 bicycles that are geo-tracked and locked into a system of 692 stations throughout Chicago. The bikes may be released from one station and brought back to any other station in the network. Up to this point, Cyclistic’s marketing approach focused on raising public awareness and appealing to a wide range of consumer groups. The price plans’ flexibility, which included single-ride passes, full-day passes, and annual memberships, was one strategy that assisted in making these things possible. Casual riders are those who buy one-ride or all-day passes from the company. Cyclistic members are customers who purchase annual memberships. Although the pricing flexibility helps Cyclistic attract more customers, especially casual riders, Cyclistic’s finance analysts have concluded that annual members are much more profitable. The company believes that, rather than creating a marketing campaign to attract new casual riders, it should focus on converting casual riders into members as they are already aware of the annual membership program and have chosen Cyclistic for their mobility needs. The marketing analyst team needs to have a deeper understanding of the distinctions between annual members and casual riders, the motivations behind why casual riders would purchase a membership, and the potential impact of digital media on their marketing strategies.

